# Components of a DevOps Pipeline  
- **Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD)** – CI/CD, which allows for the rapid integration of new code, is one of the cornerstones of DevOps pipelines.CI allows for the rapid integration of small chunks of new code from multiple developers into a shared repository. CI also allows you to automatically test the code for errors to identify bugs early on, making them easier to fix. CD is an extension of CI, enabling developers to perform additional tests such as UI tests, which helps ensure bug-free deployment. CD also helps the DevOps team deliver bug fixes, increase the frequency of new feature releases, and automate the entire software release. These features reduce the overall time and cost of a project.
-   **Continuous Testing (CT)** – CT allows companies to perform automated testing at every stage of the development process. A CT strategy allows for quick evaluations of the release risks of code integrations. Tests begin to run automatically once code is integrated.
-   **Continuous Deployment** – Continuous deployment is often confused with continuous delivery, but there’s a substantial difference between the two. At the Continuous deployment stage, the entire release cycle is automated and code updates go directly to the end user without manual interventions. The downside to these automated deployments is that if bugs have not been detected along the way, they will be released and can cause the app to fail. Continuous deployments are only recommended for minor code updates. In the worst-case scenario, you can roll back the changes. The upside is that continuous deployment enables frequent deployments in a single day.
-   **Continuous Monitoring –** Continuous monitoring enables rapid detection of compliance issues and security risks, empowering SecOps (a word that blends of “security” and “operations”) teams with real-time information from across a company’s IT infrastructure as well as supporting critical security processes like threat intelligence, forensics, root cause analysis, and incident response.
-   **Continuous Feedback** – Once code is successfully deployed, continuous feedback shows the impact of the release on end users. By automating feedback, the company gets insights and information on how users are reacting to the new build. If critical issues are discovered, development teams will get notified and can immediately start working on bug fixes.
-   **Continuous Operations** – The goal of continuous operations is to reduce or eliminate the need for planned downtime, which results in minimal interruption to the end users. Setting up continuous operations is a costly endeavor, but it may be worth the extra cost considering its advantages.

Public: Yes